mkdocs/docs/index.md, before:

# Deta Clojure Library

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.adaiasmagdiel/deta.svg)](https://clojars.org/com.adaiasmagdiel/deta)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/MKDocs-Documentation-green.svg)](https://adaiasmagdiel.github.io/deta-clojure/)

Deta is a Clojure library designed to simplify interactions with the Deta database. It provides a straightforward way to initialize a database connection and perform basic operations such as inserting data. This library is ideal for developers looking to integrate Deta database functionality into their Clojure applications.

## Table of Contents

-  [Project Progress](#project-progress)
   -  [Deta Base](#deta-base)
   -  [Deta Drive](#deta-drive)
-  [Features](#features)
-  [Installation](#installation)
   -  [Leiningen/Boot](#leiningenboot)
   -  [Clojure CLI/deps.edn](#clojure-clidepsedn)
   -  [Gradle](#gradle)
   -  [Maven](#maven)
-  [Tests](#tests)
   -  [Running Tests](#running-tests)
   -  [Windows](#windows)
   -  [Linux/MacOS](#linuxmacos)
-  [Usage](./usage.md)
   -  [Getting Started](./usage.md#getting-started)
   -  [Exemplified Usage](./usage.md#exemplified-usage)
      -  [Database Connection Initialization](./usage.md#database-connection-initialization)
      -  [Using the `put` Function](./usage.md#using-the-put-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage)
         -  [Handling Non-Map Values](./usage.md#handling-non-map-values)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions)
         -  [Example with Non-Map Value](./usage.md#example-with-non-map-value)
      -  [Using the `get` Function](./usage.md#using-the-get-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-1)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-1)
      -  [Using the `delete` Function](./usage.md#using-the-delete-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-2)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-2)
         -  [Example of Usage](./usage.md#example-of-usage)
      -  [Using the `insert` Function](./usage.md#using-the-insert-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-3)
         -  [Handling Non-Map Values](./usage.md#handling-non-map-values-1)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-3)
         -  [Example with Non-Map Value](./usage.md#example-with-non-map-value-1)
      -  [Using the `fetch` Function](./usage.md#using-the-fetch-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-4)
         -  [Parameters](./usage.md#parameters)
         -  [Example of Use](./usage.md#example-of-use)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-4)
         -  [Example with Query Parameters](./usage.md#example-with-query-parameters)
      -  [Use Cases](./usage.md#use-cases)
         -  [Data Insertion](./usage.md#data-insertion)
         -  [Data Retrieval](./usage.md#data-retrieval)
         -  [Data Removal](./usage.md#data-removal)
         -  [Data Fetching](./usage.md#data-fetching)
-  [Reference](./reference.md)
   -  [Base](./reference.md#base)
   -  [Put](./reference.md#put)
   -  [Get](./reference.md#get)
   -  [Delete](./reference.md#delete)
   -  [Insert](./reference.md#insert)
   -  [Fetch](./reference.md#fetch)

## Project Progress

The current focus is on implementing functions for Deta Base, with Deta Drive functionalities yet to be started.

### Deta Base

The Deta Base API provides a range of functionalities for data manipulation. The following functions have been implemented:

-  [x] **Base Object**: Creation and configuration of the base object for API interaction.
-  [x] **Put**: Insertion of an object into the database.
-  [x] **Get**: Retrieval of a specific object from the database.
-  [x] **Insert**: Insertion of a new object into the database.
-  [x] **Fetch**: Retrieval of objects based on specific criteria.
-  [x] **Delete**: Removal of an object from the database.

The remaining functions to be implemented are:

-  [ ] **Put Many**: Insertion of multiple objects into the database at once.
-  [ ] **Update**: Update of an existing object in the database.

### Deta Drive

Deta Drive offers functionalities for file storage and manipulation. As of now, work on Deta Drive functionalities has not yet begun. The planned functionalities include:

-  [ ] **Drive Object**: Creation and configuration of the drive object for API interaction.
-  [ ] **Put**: Upload of a file to Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **Get**: Download of a specific file from Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **Delete**: Removal of a file from Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **List**: Listing of available files in Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **Delete Many**: Removal of multiple files from Deta Drive at once.

This project is under continuous development, with the goal of providing a robust and efficient solution for interacting with the Deta Space API in Clojure. Follow the progress and contribute with suggestions or implementations of new functionalities.

## Features

-  **Database Initialization**: Easily establish a connection to a Deta database with a straightforward function call.
-  **Data Insertion**: Insert data into the Deta database, supporting various data types.
-  **Data Update**: Update existing data in the Deta database or insert new data if the key does not exist.
-  **Data Retrieval**: Fetch data from the Deta database by specifying a key.
-  **Data Deletion**: Remove data from the Deta database by specifying a key.
-  **Testing**: A comprehensive test suite is essential to ensure reliability and accuracy.

<a name="installation"></a>

## Installation

<a name="leiningenboot"></a>

### Leiningen/Boot

Add the following dependency to your `project.clj`:

```clojure
[com.adaiasmagdiel/deta "0.0.5"]
```

<a name="clojure-clidepsedn"></a>

### Clojure CLI/deps.edn

Add the following dependency to your `deps.edn`:

```clojure
com.adaiasmagdiel/deta {:mvn/version "0.0.5"}
```

<a name="gradle"></a>

### Gradle

Add the following dependency to your `build.gradle`:

```gradle
implementation("com.adaiasmagdiel:deta:0.0.5")
```

<a name="maven"></a>

### Maven

Add the following dependency to your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependency>
 <groupId>com.adaiasmagdiel</groupId>
 <artifactId>deta</artifactId>
 <version>0.0.5</version>
</dependency>
```

<a name="tests"></a>

## Tests

The `deta.base-test` namespace includes tests for the `base` and `put` functions. These tests cover various scenarios, including valid and invalid `deta-key` inputs, different data types for the `put` function, and the behavior of the `put` function when a key is provided.

<a name="running-tests"></a>

### Running Tests

To run the tests, set the `DETA_KEY` environment variable to a valid Deta key beforehand.

<a name="windows"></a>

### Windows

```cmd
set DETA_KEY=your_deta_key_here
lein test
```

<a name="linuxmacos"></a>

### Linux/MacOS

```bash
export DETA_KEY=your_deta_key_here
lein test
```

Replace `your_deta_key_here` with your actual Deta key.

Commit message:

chore(index.md): Update Deta dependency versions
This commit updates the Deta dependency versions in various build tools
to "0.0.6". This ensures that users have the latest version of the library
with bug fixes and new features.

- Updated `project.clj`, `deps.edn`, `build.gradle`, and `pom.xml` with
  the new version.
- Users are advised to replace their existing Deta dependency version with
  "0.0.6" to stay up-to-date with the latest changes.

mkdocs/docs/index.md, after:

# Deta Clojure Library

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.adaiasmagdiel/deta.svg)](https://clojars.org/com.adaiasmagdiel/deta)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/MKDocs-Documentation-green.svg)](https://adaiasmagdiel.github.io/deta-clojure/)

Deta is a Clojure library designed to simplify interactions with the Deta database. It provides a straightforward way to initialize a database connection and perform basic operations such as inserting data. This library is ideal for developers looking to integrate Deta database functionality into their Clojure applications.

## Table of Contents

-  [Project Progress](#project-progress)
   -  [Deta Base](#deta-base)
   -  [Deta Drive](#deta-drive)
-  [Features](#features)
-  [Installation](#installation)
   -  [Leiningen/Boot](#leiningenboot)
   -  [Clojure CLI/deps.edn](#clojure-clidepsedn)
   -  [Gradle](#gradle)
   -  [Maven](#maven)
-  [Tests](#tests)
   -  [Running Tests](#running-tests)
   -  [Windows](#windows)
   -  [Linux/MacOS](#linuxmacos)
-  [Usage](./usage.md)
   -  [Getting Started](./usage.md#getting-started)
   -  [Exemplified Usage](./usage.md#exemplified-usage)
      -  [Database Connection Initialization](./usage.md#database-connection-initialization)
      -  [Using the `put` Function](./usage.md#using-the-put-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage)
         -  [Handling Non-Map Values](./usage.md#handling-non-map-values)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions)
         -  [Example with Non-Map Value](./usage.md#example-with-non-map-value)
      -  [Using the `get` Function](./usage.md#using-the-get-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-1)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-1)
      -  [Using the `delete` Function](./usage.md#using-the-delete-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-2)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-2)
         -  [Example of Usage](./usage.md#example-of-usage)
      -  [Using the `insert` Function](./usage.md#using-the-insert-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-3)
         -  [Handling Non-Map Values](./usage.md#handling-non-map-values-1)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-3)
         -  [Example with Non-Map Value](./usage.md#example-with-non-map-value-1)
      -  [Using the `fetch` Function](./usage.md#using-the-fetch-function)
         -  [Basic Usage](./usage.md#basic-usage-4)
         -  [Parameters](./usage.md#parameters)
         -  [Example of Use](./usage.md#example-of-use)
         -  [Return Value and Exceptions](./usage.md#return-value-and-exceptions-4)
         -  [Example with Query Parameters](./usage.md#example-with-query-parameters)
      -  [Use Cases](./usage.md#use-cases)
         -  [Data Insertion](./usage.md#data-insertion)
         -  [Data Retrieval](./usage.md#data-retrieval)
         -  [Data Removal](./usage.md#data-removal)
         -  [Data Fetching](./usage.md#data-fetching)
-  [Reference](./reference.md)
   -  [Base](./reference.md#base)
   -  [Put](./reference.md#put)
   -  [Get](./reference.md#get)
   -  [Delete](./reference.md#delete)
   -  [Insert](./reference.md#insert)
   -  [Fetch](./reference.md#fetch)
   -  [Update](./reference.md#update)

## Project Progress

The current focus is on implementing functions for Deta Base, with Deta Drive functionalities yet to be started.

### Deta Base

The Deta Base API provides a range of functionalities for data manipulation. The following functions have been implemented:

-  [x] **Base Object**: Creation and configuration of the base object for API interaction.
-  [x] **Put**: Insertion of an object into the database.
-  [x] **Get**: Retrieval of a specific object from the database.
-  [x] **Insert**: Insertion of a new object into the database.
-  [x] **Fetch**: Retrieval of objects based on specific criteria.
-  [x] **Delete**: Removal of an object from the database.
-  [x] **Update**: Update of an existing object in the database.

The remaining functions to be implemented are:

-  [ ] **Put Many**: Insertion of multiple objects into the database at once.

### Deta Drive

Deta Drive offers functionalities for file storage and manipulation. As of now, work on Deta Drive functionalities has not yet begun. The planned functionalities include:

-  [ ] **Drive Object**: Creation and configuration of the drive object for API interaction.
-  [ ] **Put**: Upload of a file to Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **Get**: Download of a specific file from Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **Delete**: Removal of a file from Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **List**: Listing of available files in Deta Drive.
-  [ ] **Delete Many**: Removal of multiple files from Deta Drive at once.

This project is under continuous development, with the goal of providing a robust and efficient solution for interacting with the Deta Space API in Clojure. Follow the progress and contribute with suggestions or implementations of new functionalities.

## Features

-  **Database Initialization**: Easily establish a connection to a Deta database with a straightforward function call.
-  **Data Insertion**: Insert data into the Deta database, supporting various data types.
-  **Data Update**: Update existing data in the Deta database or insert new data if the key does not exist.
-  **Data Retrieval**: Fetch data from the Deta database by specifying a key.
-  **Data Deletion**: Remove data from the Deta database by specifying a key.
-  **Testing**: A comprehensive test suite is essential to ensure reliability and accuracy.

<a name="installation"></a>

## Installation

<a name="leiningenboot"></a>

### Leiningen/Boot

Add the following dependency to your `project.clj`:

```clojure
[com.adaiasmagdiel/deta "0.0.6"]
```

<a name="clojure-clidepsedn"></a>

### Clojure CLI/deps.edn

Add the following dependency to your `deps.edn`:

```clojure
com.adaiasmagdiel/deta {:mvn/version "0.0.6"}
```

<a name="gradle"></a>

### Gradle

Add the following dependency to your `build.gradle`:

```gradle
implementation("com.adaiasmagdiel:deta:0.0.6")
```

<a name="maven"></a>

### Maven

Add the following dependency to your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependency>
 <groupId>com.adaiasmagdiel</groupId>
 <artifactId>deta</artifactId>
 <version>0.0.6</version>
</dependency>
```

<a name="tests"></a>

## Tests

The `deta.base-test` namespace includes tests for the `base` and `put` functions. These tests cover various scenarios, including valid and invalid `deta-key` inputs, different data types for the `put` function, and the behavior of the `put` function when a key is provided.

<a name="running-tests"></a>

### Running Tests

To run the tests, set the `DETA_KEY` environment variable to a valid Deta key beforehand.

<a name="windows"></a>

### Windows

```cmd
set DETA_KEY=your_deta_key_here
lein test
```

<a name="linuxmacos"></a>

### Linux/MacOS

```bash
export DETA_KEY=your_deta_key_here
lein test
```

Replace `your_deta_key_here` with your actual Deta key.

### Coverage

This project includes a coverage tool that allows you to easily run test coverage reports. To generate coverage reports for tests, simply enter the following command:

```bash
lein cloverage
```
